1] Amazon VPC comprises a variety of objects that will be familiar to customers with existing networks:

    A Virtual Private Cloud: A logically isolated virtual network in the AWS cloud. You define a VPC’s IP address space from ranges you select.
    
	Subnet: A segment of a VPC’s IP address range where you can place groups of isolated resources.
    
	Internet Gateway: The Amazon VPC side of a connection to the public Internet.
    
	NAT Gateway: A highly available, managed Network Address Translation (NAT) service for your resources in a private subnet to access the Internet.
    
	Hardware VPN Connection: A hardware-based VPN connection between your Amazon VPC and your datacenter, home network, or co-location facility.
    
	Virtual Private Gateway: The Amazon VPC side of a VPN connection.
    
	Customer Gateway: Your side of a VPN connection.
    
	Router: Routers interconnect subnets and direct traffic between Internet gateways, virtual private gateways, NAT gateways, and subnets.
    
	Peering Connection: A peering connection enables you to route traffic via private IP addresses between two peered VPCs.
    
	VPC Endpoints: Enables private connectivity to services hosted in AWS, from within your VPC without using an an Internet Gateway, VPN, Network Address Translation (NAT) devices, or firewall proxies. ( S3 and Dynamo DB)
    
	Egress-only Internet Gateway: A stateful gateway to provide egress only access for IPv6 traffic from the VPC to the Internet.

2] Amazon VPC enables you to build a virtual network in the AWS cloud - no VPNs, hardware, or physical datacenters required. You can define your own network space, and control how your network and the Amazon EC2 resources inside your network are exposed to the Internet. You can also leverage the enhanced security options in Amazon VPC to provide more granular access to and from the Amazon EC2 instances in your virtual network. 

3] IPsec is a protocol suite for securing Internet Protocol (IP) communications by authenticating and encrypting each IP packet of a data stream. VGW supports IPSEC VPN throughput upto 1.25 Gbps. Multiple VPN connections to the same VPC are cumulatively bound by the VGW throughput of 1.25 Gbps

4] Default VPCs are assigned a CIDR range of 172.31.0.0/16. Default subnets within a default VPC are assigned /20 netblocks within the VPC CIDR range. 

5] Currently, Amazon VPC supports five (5) IP address ranges, one (1) primary and four (4) secondary for IPv4. Each of these ranges can be between /28 (in CIDR notation) and /16 in size. The IP address ranges of your VPC should not overlap with the IP address ranges of your existing network.

6] You can expand your existing VPC by adding four (4) secondary IPv4 IP ranges (CIDRs) to your VPC. You can shrink your VPC by deleting the secondary CIDR blocks you have added to your VPC. You cannot however change the size of the IPv6 address range of your VPC. Currently you can create 200 subnets per VPC. If you would like to create more, please submit a case at the support center

7] The minimum size of a subnet is a /28 (or 14 IP addresses.) for IPv4. Subnets cannot be larger than the VPC in which they are created. For IPv6, the subnet size is fixed to be a /64. Only one IPv6 CIDR block can be allocated to a subnet.

8] You can use the Amazon VPC Flow Logs feature to monitor the network traffic in your VPC. A subnet must reside within a single Availability Zone.

9] DescribeInstances() will return all running Amazon EC2 instances. You can differentiate EC2-Classic instances from EC2-VPC instances by an entry in the subnet field. If there is a subnet ID listed, the instance is within a VPC.

10] DescribeVolumes() will return all your EBS volumes.

11] Peering connections can be created with VPCs in different regions. Inter-Region VPC Peering is currently supported in AWS US East (Virginia), US East (Ohio), US West (Oregon) and EU (Ireland) regions.

12] Network Load Balancers, AWS PrivateLink and Elastic File System cannot be used over Inter-Region VPC Peering.

13] Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) ClassicLink allows EC2 instances in the EC2-Classic platform to communicate with instances in a VPC using private IP addresses. 

14] Amazon VPC VPN Connection does not have a Service Level Agreement (SLA)

15] 